Now, having said that, there's also this
concept of lifetime illusion, which is
basically saying, in some cases, the
compiler knows what the lifetimes must be.
And it doesn't actually
require you to annotate them.
So, I like to think of lifetime illusion
as being somewhat similar to type
inference in the sense that it's a way to
say, I could write out the type here, but
since the compiler knows exactly what the
type is, anyway, I'm not gonna bother and
it's going to be fine.
Similarly, sometimes you can say,
I could write out the lifetime
annotation here if I wanted to.
In fact, if you want to anytime you have
a reference anywhere in rust, you can put
a lifetime annotation on it if you want
to be explicit about it like that.
But in practice a lot of the time,
it's kind of a,
more trouble than you
necessarily want to take.
And so it's can be pretty nice that
the rust compiler oftentimes will say,
you know what,
I know what the lifetime is here.
You don't actually need to annotate
this if you don't want to.
So for example,
here's how I could if I wanted to,
I could have annotated
our releases value here.
I could have said yes, this is a release
a struct with a lifetime of tick a,
if I wanted to,
that's something I could do.
It's not necessarily
something that I want to do.
And so if I wanted to I could use
this right here like tick underscore,
which is basically a way of saying,
I don't actually care about what
the lifetime of this thing is.
I know that there's some life time
parameter there, but Russ compiler,
you just figure it out take care of it and
and I don't need to bother with it.
And also it's why you can see things in
various functions like that like length
that we saw earlier that
takes ampersand self.
You don't have to put ampersand
tick a self for example.
The rust compiler is smart enough to
figure okay There's only one reference
in this entire function type.
Therefore, you don't need to
bother giving it an annotation.
I know that it's just like
there's just the one lifetime.
You don't need to give it a name
because the whole point of
the name is to connect things.
There's nothing to connect
in a case like that.
Actually, before we talk about the static
lifetime limit, just pause and
ask any questions about lifetime illusion
or lifetime annotations in general?
>> Shouldn't the compiler know
automatically if it deallocates the vector
as it's being referenced by the slices?
>> Shouldn't the compiler know not to
deallocate the vector because it's still
being referenced by the slices,
in other words.
What if instead of giving you
a compile error saying, hey,
you need to fix something?
Why can't I just extend the lifetime and
basically say, okay, well,
there's still active
references to this thing.
So just don't deallocate it here and
deallocate it sometime after
the last reference expires.
I'm assuming that is the question.
That's how I understand it.
It's a great question.
I would say that the short answer
here is that it's a design decision.
I have not personally thought through all
the implications of what that might mean.
I wouldn't be surprised if it turned
out that if you had that as a policy,
it created other edge cases that were even
worse than getting a compiler error here
but to be honest, I haven't really
thought it through that much, but
the short answer is that it is a design
decision that the rust compiler makes.
And the policy is that slices and
references are not allowed to outlive
the thing that they're referencing.
And what the compiler is policy is is just
to give you an error when that happens.
Is it possible that they could
have gone a different way?
I'm honestly not sure, I'm not enough
of an expert on the compiler internals
of the rust compiler to know that or
even like,
what design considerations are involved.
But suffice it to say that is the rule and
that's what we got to work with.
So the question is basically hey,
why did we put these curly braces
here that caused this problem?
We could just get rid
of the curly braces and
then [LAUGH] we would not
a lifetime issue the first place.
Yeah, absolutely correct.
Short answer is I was trying to
find an example that sort of
minimally reproduce the problem.
And before this, I had an even
more involved example than this.
And I was trying to sort of trim it down.
And this was one of the ways
that I decided to trim it down.
But yeah, I mean, you're absolutely right.
In this case, we could get rid of that.
As far as real world examples
where this has come up,
I have definitely personally run to this
in a number of different situations.
But they're all pretty complicated, the
reasons lifetimes is at the very end of
this course is because it really is
kind of it has to do with the most well,
not the most, but some of the most
obscure edge cases that you can encounter
having to do with the Baro checker.
And they solve problems related to
that where basically you have complex
relationships between references
that are getting passed around and
you want to model them explicitly,
or maybe you even need to in order
to disambiguate for the compiler,
because it can't always allied them.
But yeah, I wish I had off and
a simple example I could rattle off but
I couldn't come up with one.
Maybe somebody else can, but
I couldn't think of one.
>> What are the kind of naming
conventions you'd use for
lifetimes, would you rather
be more explicit rather than
just take a do you wanna give
it a name that means something?
>> That's a great question.
Yeah, so the question was, wouldn't you
rather use a more descriptive name than
tick a like this is kind of your
traditional single letter variable.
Honestly, a tick a itself
is extremely common,
it's probably the most common one
you'll see in the wild by a lot.
Because most often when you
encounter something like this,
it's like there's a function that has
one maybe two lifetimes in it like
differently named lifetimes.
And so it's just sort of, I don't know,
it's the one that's there.
So giving it a descriptive name isn't
necessarily gonna help out much because
there's just not that many that can
possibly be confused cuz there's just so
few of them and they also only
exist generally speaking for
the type signature or maybe inside
the function in a couple of places.
Having said that, there is one library
that I use that actually has three
different type variables and it does use
slightly more descriptive names for them,
and they are pretty helpful.
So, I'm not saying it doesn't happen,
but it's pretty common
to have single letter names for these
things in practice, but you're absolutely
free to use more helpful ones if you
want and I definitely see that too.